[Term Entry] rfind (#3353)
Codecademy/docs: content/python/concepts/strings/terms/rfind/rfind.md

---
Title: '.rfind()'

> Description: 'Finds the starting index of the last occurrence of a specified substring if it is found in an original string and if the substring is not present the method returns -1.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Finds the last occurrence of a specified substring and returns the starting index.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Data Science'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:

>   - 'String'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - 'Strings'
```

  - 'Methods'
  - 'Functions'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/analyze-data-with-python'
---

> **`.rfind()`** searches an entire string from the `0th` index to the `last` index or searches a part of the string from the `ith` index to `jth` index, where `i < j` and returns the `last` index where the substring is found at else it returns `-1` indicating the substring is not found.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**`.rfind()`** searches a given string for a substring starting from index `0`,  or alternatively, from the *ith* index to *jth* index (where *i < j*). The method returns the starting index of the last occurrence of the substring.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
mystr.rfind(value, start, end)
```

> This method is called on a string `mystr` and returns the last index where the substring `value` is found at by searching the original string `mystr` from the `start` index to the `end` index and if the substring is not found it retuns `-1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method is called on a string `mystr` and returns the last index where the substring `value` is found at by searching the original string `mystr` from the `start` index to the `end` index, and if the substring is not found it returns `-1`.
```

## Example

> In the following example, `.rfind()` is used to find out if the substring values are found in the original string `mystr`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, `.rfind()` is used to search for several substring values in the original string `mystr`.
```

```python
mystr = "This is a python string"
str1 = "Hello"
str2 = "is"
str3 = "py"
str4 = "str"

print(mystr.rfind(str1))
print(mystr.rfind(str2,2,5))
print(mystr.rfind(str3,0,15))
print(mystr.rfind(str4,10,20))

> 

Reviewer: remove empty line
